---
layout: post
title: Christmas 2001
created: 1009267200
categories:
- christmas
---
<p><style type="text/css">
<!--
P:first-letter { font-size: 200%}
.pictureLeft { float: left; font-size: 12px; font-style: italic; text-align: right ; background-color: #CCCCCC; padding-top: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; margin-right: 10px}
.pictureRight { float: right; font-size: 12px; font-style: italic; text-align: right ; background-color: #CCCCCC; padding-top: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; margin-left: 10px}
.holly {  margin-right: 15px; margin-left: 15px; float: right}
-->
</style>  ___img width="150" vspace="10" hspace="5" height="82" class="holly" src="http://mathews2000.com/drupal/files/holly.gif" alt="" /></p>
<p>December 2001</p>
<p>Dear Family and Friends</p>
<p><span class="dropCap">W</span>e feel very blessed, the Lord has been good      to us this year.</p>
<p><span class="pictureLeft">___img width="131" height="170" src="http://mathews2000.com/drupal/files/Katrina.gif" alt="" /><br />
Katrina - November 2001<br />
</span></p>
<p><span class="dropCap">B</span>y far, the biggest blessing is the birth of      our daughter Katrina on March 6th. Any baby would have been wonderful, but      we (in out humble and unbiased opinion) think that we were given an especially      wonderful baby. She is intelligent and always looking around observing us      and her surroundings. From the first couple months, a personality has shown      through. She lets us know quite clearly when something is wrong or needs fixed.      Initially, this was confined to &quot;my diaper is full&quot;, &quot;I'm hungry&quot;,      or &quot;I'm tired&quot;. As she as gotten older, she has added sounds for      &quot;This world is so wonderful, I love it&quot; and &quot;I'm bored, play      with me&quot;.</p>
<p>At her current nine months of age, she is starting to get around and into      things. She has learned how to open drawers and cabinets and is working on      walking. Sonia is convinced that Katrina says &quot;Hi&quot;. However, Katrina      will give you a kiss on cheek after which you need a towel. She hasn't quite      perfected the mechanics of kissing, but it warms our hearts nonetheless.</p>
<p><span class="pictureLeft">___img width="256" height="184" src="http://mathews2000.com/drupal/files/OldTownMontreal.jpg" alt="" /><br />
Old Town Montr&eacute;al<br />
</span></p>
<p>I had never been to Montr&eacute;al, in Eastern Canada, where Sonia grew up.      She has wanted to show me the area since we were married. In August, we took      a ten day trip to the area, the first half of which we spent in Montr&eacute;al.      The second half of the trip, we took a road trip through the Atlantic Provinces.      We had a lot of fun traveling together and seeing the sites. I got a a flavor      for Sonia's homeland, and as always, Katrina traveled wonderfully.</p>
<p>While we were in Montr&eacute;al, Katrina and I were able to meet Sonia's Grandmother      before she died. We played tourist and took a walking tour of the downtown      area, some of which dates back to 1642. Sonia showed me here old neighborhoods      and haunts that were significant to her. We ate at several wonderful restaurants.      (If you love good food, go to Montr&eacute;al. They have California beat hands      down for quality and price of dining.)</p>
<p>O<span class="pictureRight">___img width="309" height="154" src="http://mathews2000.com/drupal/files/CanadaTripMap.gif" alt="" /><br />
Our road trip - 1800 miles<br />
</span>n our road trip, we took a long loop from Montr&eacute;al along the Saint      Lawrence River, out around the Gasp&eacute; Peninsula, down through New Brunswick,      to Prince Edward Island, and then back to Montr&eacute;al. It was an incredible      trip with lots of beautiful sites. We saw innumerable little fishing villages,      walked out to the famous Perc&eacute; Rock, drove through the countryside of      Prince Edward Island (think Anne of Green Gables), and waded in the Atlantic      Ocean. We had a marvelous hike in the Bay of Fundy National Park through the       start of fall foliage to a waterfall and pool where we went swimming.</p>
<p>Sonia has been busy being a mother. She had lots of experience being a Nanny      and an older sister, but there has still been lots to learn. She has also      gone back to school and found the going rough for a while as she got started      again. She enjoys her large family and we are looking forward to the wedding      of her sister in a few weeks. She was recently asked to teach the eleven year      old girls primary class at church and is enjoys the interaction with her girls.</p>
<p>It is a wonderful life that I've got, but it keeps me busy. I am a stake      missionary for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, so I go out      one or two nights a week doing various assignments.</p>
<p>I have worked for Everyone.Net since June of 1999. However, with the current      economy, in October I was laid off. I have enjoyed the time at home with Sonia      and Katrina and I've had the opportunity to work on a couple projects that      are allowing me to extend my skills.</p>
<p>I am excited about a new position that will give me a fresh set of challenges.      I have been looking in the western United States for a Web Applications Developer      position. I would like to leave San Jose for a more rural area, but we will      take a job were it comes.</p>
<p>I've enclosed a copy of my <a href="../Professional/index.htm">resume</a>      for your review and use. Please pass it along to friends and associates that      you think would have an interest in it.</p>
<p>We wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.</p>
<div align="center">___img width="420" height="274" src="http://mathews2000.com/drupal/files/Sonia&amp;Ben-Christmas-2001.jpg" alt="" /></div>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>Love</p>
<p>Ben, Sonia &amp; Katrina Mathews</p>
