---
layout: post
title: IDMTWY 2008 - Day 8
created: 1212735600
categories:
- family
- idmtwy2008
---
 
 
     
         
             Miles Driven 
             Way to many - 240ish 
         
         
             Route 
             Helena, MT -&gt; yellowstone -&gt; Lehi, UT 
         
     
 
 
 Our plan was to travel to Yellowstone and then stay at a hotel that night.  We knew it would be a long day, but poor planning and bad weather made it much worse than we anticipated.  The forcast was for high 30s and rain.  It turned out to be steady wet snow.  We had not packed the correct clothing, so the children were miserable.  Sarah and I were the only ones that looked at most of the sights.  We forgot when calculating driving times that the rural roads and national park have much slower speed limits.  Yellowstone is posted at 45 and in practice was often slower than that.  We stopped several times while people rubbernecked at bison.  Another time, we stopped for 45 minutes for a rollover.  It was early evening when we finally made it to Old Faithful.  We caught the tail end of the eruption, ate some horrible pasta at the cafeteria.  Before going past the West Entrance, I asked a ranger about road conditions.  He assured me that they were fine, but just south of Old Faithful, the road was closed.  We retraced our steps to and left the park at West Yellowstone.  The only hotel room I could find was a single queen for $138.  We pressed on thinking there would be other options.  Rexburg was sold out due to a baseball tournement and Idaho Falls was sold out because of a convention.  It was almost 10pm by this point, so I gave the wheel to Sonia and she drove us home arriving at 2am Saturday morning.  
